{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Segoe UI Emoji;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 MS Outlook;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green77\blue187;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\cf1\b\f0\fs56\lang9 Project Title: Movie Recommendation System\par
Project Report\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs32 1. Project Overview\cf0\b0\par
The Movie Recommendation System aims to recommend movies to users based on their preferences using collaborative filtering techniques. The project is designed to help users find movies they might like, based on their past movie choices or the preferences of similar users.\par
The system uses user ratings data and implements a Collaborative Filtering model to suggest movies. The model can be extended to include both user-based and item-based recommendations. This project includes both a backend (server-side logic using Flask) and a front end (user interface using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript).\par
\par
\cf1\b 2. Problem Statement\par
\cf0\b0 The main problem this project aims to solve is the overwhelming number of choices in the movie industry. With the increasing number of movies released each year, users often face the challenge of choosing the right movie to watch. By providing personalized recommendations, this system aims to simplify the movie discovery process.\par
\cf1\b 3. Objectives\par
\cf0\b0 Develop a collaborative filtering recommendation model for recommending movies.\par
Build a user-friendly web interface where users can interact with the recommendation system.\par
Implement session management to allow personalized experiences for users.\par
Host the application for easy access via a web browser.\par
\cf1\b 4. Technical Overview\par
\cf0\b0 Backend:\par
The backend is built using Flask, a lightweight Python web framework. Flask handles the server-side logic, including routing, session management, and interacting with the recommendation model.\par
Collaborative Filtering Algorithm: The recommendation engine uses collaborative filtering to suggest movies based on user preferences. The model predicts user ratings for movies they haven't seen yet, by considering the ratings given by similar users.\par
\par
Database: A simple in-memory database or a file-based system is used to store user ratings and movie data.\par
\par
Frontend:\par
The frontend is developed using HTML and CSS to provide a clean and simple interface. The user selects a movie they like, and the system provides personalized recommendations.\par
JavaScript may be used for any dynamic elements on the page.\par
\cf1\b 5. System Architecture\par
\cf0\b0 The architecture of the Movie Recommendation System is divided into two main parts:\par
Frontend (Client-Side):\par
HTML forms are used for user input (selecting a movie they like).\par
CSS is used for styling the UI components.\par
JavaScript handles dynamic interactions (such as updating recommendations without reloading the page).\par
Backend (Server-Side):\par
Flask handles routing, session management, and interacting with the recommendation algorithm.\par
The collaborative filtering model is used to generate movie recommendations.\par
\par
\cf1\b 6. Features\par
\cf0\b0 User Authentication: A simple login system allows users to personalize their movie recommendations.\par
Movie Suggestions: After selecting a movie, users are provided with a list of similar movie recommendations.\par
Responsive UI: The user interface is responsive and works on multiple devices.\par
Session Management: The system stores user preferences across sessions to provide consistent recommendations.\par
\par
\cf1\b 7. Technologies Used\par
\cf0\b0 Frontend:\par
HTML5: For structuring the web page.\par
CSS3: For styling the page and making it visually appealing.\par
JavaScript: For handling user interactions and dynamic content updates.\par
Backend:\par
Flask: A Python web framework to serve the backend logic and handle HTTP requests.\par
Jinja2: Templating engine used to dynamically render HTML content.\par
Python: The main programming language used to implement the recommendation logic.\par
Other:\par
SQLite or JSON files: For storing user data and movie data in a simple file-based system.\par
\par
\cf1\b 8. System Design\par
\cf0\b0 The system is designed with modularity and scalability in mind:\par
\par
Recommendation Model: The core recommendation system uses collaborative filtering based on user ratings.\par
\par
Web Application: The Flask web application allows users to interact with the system, select movies, and view recommendations.\par
\par
\cf1\b 9. Implementation Details\par
\cf0\b0 Collaborative Filtering Algorithm:\par
\par
User-based Collaborative Filtering: This approach suggests movies by finding similar users based on their ratings. Users who have rated movies similarly to the target user are considered neighbors, and their ratings are used to recommend movies.\par
\par
Item-based Collaborative Filtering: This approach recommends movies based on the similarity of items (movies). It calculates similarity between items using metrics like cosine similarity.\par
\par
Session Management:\par
\par
A simple login system stores user preferences in sessions. Once a user logs in, their past preferences (movies they\f1\'19\f0 ve liked or rated highly) are stored, and they receive tailored movie suggestions based on those preferences.\par
\par
Frontend:\par
\par
The form allows users to select a movie they like, and on form submission, the backend processes the request and sends back a list of recommended movies.\par
\par
The page dynamically updates to show the recommendations.\par
\par
\cf1\b 10. Demo Video Script\par
\cf0\b0 Introduction:\par
"Hello! Welcome to our Movie Recommendation System. In this demo, I will show you how our movie recommender works and how it can help you discover new movies you might like."\par
\par
Show the Login Process:\par
\par
"Let me start by logging into my account. This system uses a session-based login where I can keep track of my preferences."\par
\par
Show Movie Selection and Recommendation Process:\par
\par
"Here, I can select a movie I like. For instance, let's choose 'Inception'. Once I click on 'Get Recommendations', the system uses collaborative filtering to suggest similar movies that I might enjoy."\par
\par
Display Recommended Movies:\par
\par
"As you can see, the system has suggested a few movies that are similar to 'Inception'. These recommendations are based on what other users with similar preferences have enjoyed."\par
\par
Conclusion:\par
\par
"That's it for this demo! Thanks for watching, and I hope this system helps you find your next favorite movie!"\par
\par
\cf1\b 11. Challenges Faced\par
\cf0\b0 Data Sparsity: Collaborative filtering algorithms often face issues with sparse data (i.e., when users have rated only a small subset of movies). This can lead to less accurate recommendations.\par
\par
Scalability: As the number of users and movies grows, the recommendation system's performance can degrade, requiring optimizations or alternative approaches like matrix factorization.\par
\par
\cf1\b 12. Future Work\par
\cf0\b0 Matrix Factorization: Implementing advanced techniques like Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) to handle larger datasets and provide more accurate recommendations.\par
\par
Hybrid Model: Combining content-based filtering with collaborative filtering to improve the quality of recommendations.\par
\par
Improved UI: Adding more interactive features like search, sorting, and better filters to improve user experience.\par
\par
\cf1\b 13. Conclusion\par
\cf0\b0 This Movie Recommendation System provides a basic yet powerful solution to help users discover new movies based on their past preferences and the preferences of similar users. While the system is simple, it demonstrates the effectiveness of collaborative filtering and provides a strong foundation for future enhancements.\par
\ul\b\par
\cf1 14. References\par
\cf0\ulnone\b0 Collaborative Filtering: {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collaborative_filtering }}{\fldrslt{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collaborative_filtering\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs32\par
\par
Flask Documentation: {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.1.x/ }}{\fldrslt{https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.1.x/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs32\par
\par
MovieLens Dataset: {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/ }}{\fldrslt{https://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs32\par
\par
Demo Video: \par
}
 